README.md, before:

# The human factor: Addressing Diversity in RLHF

Code for Bachelor thesis, _The Human Factor: Addressing Diversity in Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback_.

Abstract:

> Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) is a promising approach to training agents to perform complex tasks 
> by incorporating human feedback. However, the learning process can be greatly impacted by the quality and diversity of
> this feedback. Humans are highly diverse in their preferences, expertise, and capabilities. In this paper, we 
> investigate the effects of conflicting feedback on the agent's performance, comparing it to an ideal agent that receives
> optimal feedback. Furthermore, we analyse the impact of environmental complexity on agent performance and examine
> various query selection strategies. Our results show that RLHF performance rapidly degrades with even minimal
> conflicting feedback, and current query selection strategies are ineffective in handling feedback diversity.
> We thus conclude that addressing diversity is crucial for RLHF, suggesting a need for alternative reward modelling approaches. 

## Installation

To install the required packages, run the following command:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

This repository allows training optimal RLHF agents for the `Pendulum`, `Lunar Lander`, and `Bipedal Walker` environments
given some conflicting probability. The agents can then be evaluated, plotting the average evaluating reward per episode
and conduct permutation tests to compare the agents' performance.

Relevant files:
- `train_preference_comparisons.py` include the main methods to obtain the RLHF agents and train.
  - We also implement a custom `ConflictingSyntheticGatherer` class, which is used to generate conflicting preferences.
   There are also tests in the `tests` folder.
- `train.py` includes the training loop for the agents.
- `plot_results.py` plots the results of the training, stored in the `results` folder.
- `Config.py` includes the configuration for the training process. Hyperparameters, etc.
- `helpers.py`, `environments.py`, and `graphs.py` includes many auxiliary functions to help with the training and evaluation process.

Note that the code logs the results in Weight & Biases, so you need to have an account and set up the API key.
This key should be stored in a `Constants.py` file in the root directory:

```python
API_WANDB_KEY = 'XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX'
```

Commit message:

Removed unnecessary files, code style fixes, update README, and other minor improvements

README.md, after:

# The human factor: Addressing Diversity in RLHF

Code for Bachelor thesis, _The Human Factor: Addressing Diversity in Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback_.

Abstract:

> Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) is a promising approach to training agents to perform complex tasks 
> by incorporating human feedback. However, the learning process can be greatly impacted by the quality and diversity of
> this feedback. Humans are highly diverse in their preferences, expertise, and capabilities. In this paper, we 
> investigate the effects of conflicting feedback on the agent's performance, comparing it to an ideal agent that receives
> optimal feedback. Furthermore, we analyse the impact of environmental complexity on agent performance and examine
> various query selection strategies. Our results show that RLHF performance rapidly degrades with even minimal
> conflicting feedback, and current query selection strategies are ineffective in handling feedback diversity.
> We thus conclude that addressing diversity is crucial for RLHF, suggesting a need for alternative reward modelling approaches. 

## Installation

To install the required packages, run the following command:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

This repository allows training optimal RLHF agents for the `Pendulum`, `Lunar Lander`, and `Bipedal Walker` environments
given some conflicting probability. The agents can then be evaluated, plotting the average evaluating reward per episode
and conduct permutation tests to compare the agents' performance.

Relevant files:
- `train_preference_comparisons.py` include the main methods to get the RLHF agents and train them.
  - We also implement a custom `ConflictingSyntheticGatherer` class, which is used to generate conflicting preferences.
   There are also tests in the `tests` folder.
- `train.py` includes the training loop for the agents.
- `plot_results.py` plots the results of the training, stored in the `results` folder.
- `Config.py` includes the configuration for the training process. Hyperparameters, etc.
- `helpers.py`, `environments.py`, and `graphs.py` includes many auxiliary functions to help with the training and evaluation process.


### Logging into wandb

Note that the code logs the results in Weight & Biases, so you need to have an account and set up the API key.
This key should be stored in a `Constants.py` file in the root directory:

```python
API_WANDB_KEY = 'XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX'
```

### Evaluating agents

The agents' performance is evaluated using csv files of their mean evaluating reward per episode.
These files are named after the environment and must be stored in the `results` folder.

The `plot_results.py` script can be used to plot the results of the agents.
The script will plot the average evaluating reward per episode and 
conduct permutation tests to compare the agents' performance.
It also includes helper methods to generate the csv files from wandb logs.
